Azure:
What is Azure?

Cloud, it changed the way the world works.
extend business--->
Azure is a cloud computing platform from Microsoft.
It is very much expanded/expanding day by day, for giving different types of services to build solutions for business.
1) VM--Virtual machine running on the cloud for host and running your software.
2) Storage---relational/non-relational 
3) software development and deployment services
4) Networking
5) AI,ML,IOT etc

1)on premise--on datacenter----> security and availability
2) microsoft/amazon-----security and availability


Regions
Availability Sets
IAAS-----Infrastructure as a Service(VM)
PAAS-----Platform as a Service
SAAS-----Software as a Service(OS,SQL SERVER...)


1) DataCenters: Whenever a VM, on the cloud,physical space. A building that contains physical server/s.
Many many servers which are connected using a network.
Cooler,Power.
150+ data centers---> only India
Project Natick----Some Data Centers below the ocean, that project is called "Project Natick"
DATACENTERS ARE SEALED and 2yrs to avoid----Corrosion,humidity, bumps.



Region Pairs
Availability Zones
2)Geographies: are countries atleast one azure region exists.


INDIA: 
US
UK
Canada
Africa
Australia
Europe
China
France
Germany
UAE


3) Regions: 
India
Central India
Pune-----> DataCenter
Hyderabad----> Coming soon
Chennai---->Data Center

resilient---if problem with one of the regions other region will take care of it.


3) Regions	
	A           B                  C
Central India  India South Central   South India
Done by the traffic manager: if a goes down, b will take care of the requests of a and when a is up again the traffic will be diverted back to a.




4) Azure Availability Zone: unique physical location within the azure region, it is made up of one or more data centers with independent power, cooling,neworking.
3 places the bakcup of the data will be available.
99.9% the server will be always work--SLA(Service Level Agreement)

Azure fault domain and update domain.

A
Pune              
VM--->1  + 2


Zonal Services---- VM, Manual Replication
Zone-Redundant---- Automatic Replication, Azure SQL Database

Azure Paired regions: Pair of azure zones within the same geography.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Azure Resource
Azure Resource Group


Resources are instances of azure services that u create, VM,app service,storage,sql server dataase,etc

Multiple resources when grouped together ---Azure Resource Group

1) VM----host and run my web app
2)Storage----images/videos etc
3) SQL database---to sotre web app data

Management Groups for the services can be created as per the role and responsibilties of the employee/s who will be doing the job.
So that subscriptions could be availed the way required.

































